2026-02-27 Andrew Papale
Clock_v2 ReadMe

The clock task v2 is an updated version of the classic clock task developed in Michael Frank's lab and cited in the literature including with works in DNPL.  The goals of developing the new version were 1) separate response time from the value distribution 2) include a manipulation for local uncertainty that was orthogonalized with the classic manipulation of global uncertainty (entropy) that has been the focus of prior research.  The literature suggests that local uncertainty is an important factor that should be considered in decision making, etc.  Minor improvements include adding a "story" to the task and "gamifying" it to some extent, but these should have little impact on the core experimental manipulations.

The initial commits to this repo include version of the task that closely mirror the original clock task with expected value gradients that change more-or-less linearly with time.  The "spaceship" indicating the current location on the "planet" always started at 12 o'clock as in the original task.  This version helped to work out the bugs of what was an already complicated task, and we did not know what the final form of clock_v2 was going to be yet.  I'd have to look back through the lab's slack history to see if we ever piloted this version in Prolific.

Several rounds of Prolific piloting were done to ensure the task was relatively bug-free and that manipulations had behavioral effects.

There are two versions of the task that were used in the DNPL study.  The EEG task was version 2_1_2.  The fMRI version was 2_1_3.  There was, what I felt, a major upgrade in the fMRI version after necessary to iterate to 2_1_3 over 2_1_2 which was meant to be the final version.  The EEG version contains parallel port triggers such that it won't run on most computers (will crash).  It contains shorter ITIs and ISIs.  The fMRI version contains longer ITI's and ISI's that were computed from simulations by Alison that help to optimize the detectability of HRF differences.

The final version includes 10 seeds, generated from extensive simulations of parameters (done by Alex and Michael) that maximize the potential effects of separation of local and global uncertainty.  Earlier versions of clock_2 generated the value distributions and local uncertainty stimuli on the fly so they would be different for each subject.  The final decision was to hard code the 10 best seeds.  This was implemented by loading separate parameters through .txt files in the main clock_v2 repo for each of the 10 seeds separately.  While care was taken that all changes to one seed were replicated in the remaining 9 seeds, it made debugging a bit more difficult.  Nevertheless there are no known bugs in 2_1_3 for fMRI or 2_1_2 for EEG.
